Here's another router.
And on this third Rodda using the come on show up shows us the OP table.
I could ping another router in the network as follows.
Now when I use the C'mon show up there's the resolution between IP version 4 address and MAC address
of the remote's router show IP route shows us the writing table.
And as you can see this router has a default gateway or gateway of last resort of 1 9 2 1 6 8 1 2:49.
So there's the static default gateway.
So this Rodda as an example we'll be able to ping through Google dot com after doing a DNS request to
the DNS server so that IP address wasn't previously in the OP cache over here.
But show up now shows us the resolution between IP version for address and MAC address of the local
DNS server.
The Rotto was able to ping Google dot com because it sent traffic to Google via its default gateway
or gateway of last resort.
1 9 2 1 6 8 1 2 4 9.
So the router has both in cash as well as a routing table.
We can see details of interfaces on the Shradha by using the command show IP interface brief and we
can see more detail by looking at an individual interface.
So this first Ethan interface is configured with this hardware MAC address which is the same as the
burnt in MAC address set by Cisco on the scene to face the speed and Duplaix of the interfaces 100 megabits
per second and it's using full duplex ARP entries with time out after 4 hours by default on the router.
Notice we can see the input queue for the interface as well as the output queue.
So packets may need to be buffered as an example on a gross out of the first Ethan interface.
If there's high congestion we can see the packets in and packets output on this interface but interfaces
on routers have buffers if packets need to be buffered before they sent or buffered when they received
and before they can be processed by the central CPQ of the router.
Show version on this router
will show us that the memory on the shroud is a lot lower than the other routers.
1 1 5 7 1 2 plus 1 5 3 6
divided by 1024 shows us that those Shradha only has 128 mega ram whereas the other routers had 256
meg of ram show flash shows us the files stored in flash on the router.
Notice they are two versions of the operating system on the router and commands such as the boot command
allow us to specify which operating system is going to be booted or loaded by the router.
By default the first operating system in Flash is loaded.
But in this case the boot to system flash command specifies that this operating system instead of this
operating system should be loaded by the router.
Now in this case they the same notice the name is slightly different underscore too but you could have
different operating systems in Flash or different versions of an operating system and then decide which
one gets booted.
So if you upgrading the router you may load an additional operating system into flash and then tell
the router to boot off fat but if it fails then boot off an alternate operating system.